# About

## What is DevExDashboard?
DevExDashboard is a web-based dashboard based on Streamlit and libratools to monitor daily tracking activity of animal movement trajectories. While aimed at data recorded with a motif video recording system and tracked with BioTracker, it works with any x, y, time data. Currently it only supports data stored in CSV files. More information is provided in the application's [README.md](https://github.com/vincejstraub/developing-exploration-behavior/blob/master/Processing/DevExDashboard/README.md). The dashboard currently relies on a preprocessing script to first read, merge, and preprocess CSV files generated by BioTracker before visualizing and providing key diagnostics for each track.

The main source of documentation for developers and researchers working with (or contributing to) with DevExDashboard is the DevEx project's GitHub [wiki](https://github.com/vincejstraub/developing-exploration-behavior/wiki).

## Further  settings

The preprocessing script has a number of parameter settings which can be configured by the user (either in the source code or below) to change how tracks are preprocessed and visualized. The preprocessing script `process.py` is currently designed to deal with 3 types of error that may occur upstream during recording or tracking. 

### 1. Missing data points
Missing values at the beginning and end are dropped (as linear interpolation is not possible) default to interpolation if less than 1% of values are 
missing otherwise keep them in as NaN values otherwise drop them.

### 2. Detecting and handling outliers
Outliers, also referred to as anomalies, were labeled as such if they were use linear interpolation if number of consecutive outliers is never more than 1 (i.e. dirt was tracked for a second or so) and less than 1% otherwise default to Kalman filter if FILTER_ARG if yes otherwise just ignore them (see below). 

### 3. Detecting whether a dirt particle has been tracked
Outliers, also referred to as anomalies, were labeled as such if they were use linear interpolation if number of consecutive outliers is never more than 1 (i.e. dirt was tracked for a second or so) and less than 1% otherwise default to Kalman filter if FILTER_ARG if yes otherwise just ignore them (see below).  
        

## Source code:

To download DevEx's Python modules, please refer the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/vincejstraub/developing-exploration-behavior/tree/master/Processing/DevExDashboard). 
